skip to content in this short tutorial i will show you all the steps to do in order to completely uninstall ros2 from ubuntu. i will assume that you have installed ros2 using apt (binary install). >> watch this video as an additional resource to this article: after watching the video, subscribe to the robotics back-end youtube channel so you dont miss the next tutorials! table of contents toggle find which ros2 distribution you want to uninstall first, you might want to check what ros/ros2 distributions you have installed. go in /opt/ros and youll see the list of distributions. you can then repeat the following steps for each distribution you want to completely remove. you want to learn ros2 efficiently? check out ros2 for beginners and learn ros2 step by step, in 1 week. remove ros2 packages first we will remove all installed packages with apt. plain text copy to clipboard open code in new window enlighterjs 3 syntax highlighter  sudo apt remove ros-*  sudo apt remove ros-*  sudo apt remove ros-* for a specific distribution, use ros-distribution-* instead. once youve done that, you might also want to run an autoremove. plain text copy to clipboard open code in new window enlighterjs 3 syntax highlighter  sudo apt autoremove  sudo apt autoremove  sudo apt autoremove finally, go in the /opt directory and check that the ros2 distribution you wanted to remove is not here anymore. if you still have some stuff there, just remove with the rm rm command (using sudo). clean the environment when you install ros2, and when you setup a ros2 workspace, you usually add some extra lines in your .bashrc file, in order to source the environment correctly for ros2 anytime you open a new session. as you just removed ros2 packages, you need to clean that. go to your .bashrc file and remove any line that has a reference to the global ros2 installation, a ros2 workspace, etc. one extra thing you might want to do (optional): you could remove the ros2 workspaces that youve created. note that before doing this, its recommended to back them up, for example online with git. but you could also leave the workspaces on your computer, if you dont mind the extra used space. as they are not sourced from the .bashrc anymore, they wont be a problem. another extra thing: if you have used an ide such as vs code and have installed some ros extensions, you might also want to remove them from the ide. remove the ros2 sources finally, if you want to remove all ros2 traces from your computer, you also need to remove the ros2 sources. when you installed ros2, you ran some commands that added a new source repository for apt. you can check that by running a simple sudo apt update sudo apt update . youll see a line that contains something like packages.ros.org/ros2/ubuntu. to remove this, just delete the ros2.list file that was added during the installation. plain text copy to clipboard open code in new window enlighterjs 3 syntax highlighter  cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/  sudo rm ros2.list  cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/  sudo rm ros2.list  cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d/  sudo rm ros2.list now you can do sudo apt update sudo apt update again and you should not see the ros2 source anymore. lastly, i would suggest to re-run an autoremove, and finally, reboot your computer. plain text copy to clipboard open code in new window enlighterjs 3 syntax highlighter sudo apt autoremove sudo reboot sudo apt autoremove sudo reboot sudo apt autoremove sudo reboot and thats it! ros2 should now be completely uninstalled. want to learn how to program with ros2? don't miss this opportunity: [new] ros 2 book or, learn with a video course want to learn ros2? [new] ros 2 book or, learn with a video course we use s on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. by clicking accept all, you consent to the use of all the s. however, you may visit " settings" to provide a controlled consent.  settings accept all manage consent close  overview this website uses s to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. out of these, the s that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the ... necessary necessary always enabled necessary s are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. these s ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.  duration description lawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months this  is set by gdpr  consent plugin. the  is used to store the user consent for the s in the category "analytics". lawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months the  is set by gdpr  consent to record the user consent for the s in the category "functional". lawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months this  is set by gdpr  consent plugin. the s is used to store the user consent for the s in the category "necessary". lawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months this  is set by gdpr  consent plugin. the  is used to store the user consent for the s in the category "other. lawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months this  is set by gdpr  consent plugin. the  is used to store the user consent for the s in the category "performance". viewed__policy 11 months the  is set by the gdpr  consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of s. it does not store any personal data. functional functional functional s help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features. performance performance performance s are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors. analytics analytics analytical s are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. these s help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.    s are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and  campaigns. these s track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads. others others other uncategorized s are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet. save & accept learn ros2 in a week check out the course here