how to publish & subscribe to a ros2 topic using command line written by alberto ezquerro  ros2 tutorials  05/07/2019 in this video you will learn how to publish and subscribe to a topic in ros2 using the command line. commands to use: ros2 topic list ros2 msg list ros2 msg show std_msgs/string ros2 topic pub /chatter std_msgs/string "data: hello ros developers" ros2 topic echo /chatter related ros2 resources: ros2 course for beginners : introduce you to the basic concepts that you need to know in order to start working with ros2. ros development studio : develop your first ros2 project online (ready online including gazebo simulations + ros1_bridge) the following steps take through the development as shown in the video: open ros development studio and create a new project (use a suitable name for the project). activate the docker image for ros2 by executing the following command in a shell  docker run -it osrf/ros2:ardent-basic the first command to know is ros2 topic list . this command is same as the rostopic list command in ros 1. the command for publishing a topic is ros2 topic pub . this command takes the topic name and message just like the rostopic pub command in ros 1. in ros 2, we can use the command ros2 msg list to see all the supported message types now lets see the usage with a string type message. we can see the structure of the string message with the following command  ros2 msg show std_msgs/string the output of this command will give us the information  the content of the message type string . to publish the message we will use the following command  ros2 topic pub /chatter std_msgs/string "data: hello ros developers" once we execute the above command, a message will start publishing to the /chatter topic. next, we can check the published message by using ros2 topic echo command. this should show us the message on /chatter topic  ros2 topic echo /chatter the output of the above command should be the message that we encoded in the last command. feedback: did you like this video? whatever the case, please leave a comment on the comments section below, so we can interact and learn from each other. if you want to learn  other ros topics, please let us know on the comments area and we will do a video  it. topics: ros2 | ros2 topic check out these related posts how to become a robotics developer may 26, 2018 updated: july 26, 2023 robotics needs developers! robotics needs software engineers and software... read more 130. the open source robotics alliance apr 8, 2024 i would like to dedicate this episode to all the ros developers out there who are thinking and... read more 129. ros2ai jan 29, 2024 i would like to dedicate this episode to all the ros developers who believe that chatgpt or... read more  older entries 0 comments submit a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. comment name email website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. submit comment δ this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed . pin it on pinterest share this twitter linkedin reddit facebook gmail