the ros 2 project roadmap edit on github warning you're reading the documentation for a version of ros 2 that has reached its eol (end-of-life), and is no longer officially supported. if you want up-to-date information, please have a look at jazzy . roadmap ï this page describes planned work for ros 2. the set of planned features and development efforts should provide insight into the overall direction of ros 2. if you would like to see other features on the roadmap, please get in touch with us at info @ openrobotics . org . iron roadmap ï iron irwini is the ros 2 release expected in may 2023. see release for a detailed timeline. the items in the roadmap below are the major features being worked on by the ros 2 community. the âsizeâ is an estimated size of the task, where small means person-days to complete, medium means person-weeks to complete, and large means person-months to complete. if you are working on a feature for ros 2 iron and would like to have it listed, please open a pull request to ros 2 documentation . if youâd like to take on one of these tasks, please get in touch with us . task size owner expected completion various improvements and port of further functionality for diagnostics medium bosch q1 2023 license linter and  file generator for binary packages medium bosch q2 2023 rclc dispatcher executor for non-posix os medium bosch q1 2023 improve rclcpp executor performance large open robotics q4 2022 dds user experience - improve the out-of-the-box experience large open robotics q1 2023 dds user experience - configuration of initial peers for discovery small open robotics q4 2022 dds user experience - develop a configuration tool medium open robotics q4 2022 python per-package documentation generation small open robotics q4 2022 rclpy performance with large messages medium open robotics q1 2023 ros 1 to ros 2 migration documentation and tools medium open robotics q2 2023 sdf integration medium open robotics q1 2023 better error message for launch (stretch goal) medium open robotics q2 2023 relaunch of individual nodes in a complex system (stretch goal) small open robotics q2 2023 logging configuration and features (stretch goal) medium open robotics q2 2023 iron release large open robotics q2 2023 contentfiltering fallback in rcl large sony group corporation q1 2023 on_pub/sub_matched callback support medium sony group corporation q1 2023 ros 2 core contentfiltering enhancement medium sony group corporation q2 2023 additional project-specific roadmaps can be found in the links below: moveit2: https://moveit.ros.org/documentation/contributing/roadmap/ nav2: https://navigation.ros.org/roadmap/roadmap.html planned releases ï please see the distributions page for the timeline of and information  future distributions. contributing to ros 2 ï looking for something to work on, or just want to help out? here are a few resources to get you going. the contributing guide describes how to make a contribution to ros 2. check out the list of feature ideas for inspiration. for more information on the design of ros 2 please see design.ros2.org . the core code for ros 2 is in the ros2 github organization . the discourse forum/mailing list for discussing ros 2 design is ng-ros . questions should be asked on ros answers , make sure to include at least the ros2 tag and the rosdistro version you are running, e.g. foxy . other versions v: foxy releases jazzy (latest) iron humble galactic (eol) foxy (eol) eloquent (eol) dashing (eol) crystal (eol) in development rolling