learn get started release notes tutorials user guide tools ui api reference developer guide contribute atom renderer version: 23.10.3 development 23.10 23.05 22.10 22.05 search site / o3de documentation / user guide / gems / gem reference / ros 2 / edit on github in this article ros 2 gem the ros 2 gem uses the robot operating system (ros) to enable robotic simulation in open 3d engine (o3de) . the ros 2 gem has the following features: direct and natural support of the ros 2 ecosystem: does not use any bridges to communicate between ros and o3de. a simulation node will function as any other ros 2 node. enables you to directly include ros 2 headers and write ros 2 code in o3de. having no bridge improves communication performance. custom messages, services, and actions just work! provides an easy way to include ros 2 dependencies. sensors: are abstracted through the sensor component base, which takes care of the publishing of sensor data and common settings such as frequency. features several types of configurable, extendable sensors such as lidar (3d and 2d), camera (including depth channel), imu, odometry, gnss, and . utilities for automated handling of: simulation time: - publishing /clock , with support for non-real time. computing and publishing of transformation frames ( /tf , /tf_static ). namespaces- allowing multi-robot simulation in o3de by default! validation for topic and namespace names. dynamic spawning of robots through ros 2 services. robot control component: provides a quick-to-use method of controlling your robot. includes support for twist and ackermanndrive message interfaces. manipulation and grippers: support for robot arms and other joint systems. configurable components, easy to integrate with moveit2. finger and vacuum gripper. vehicle dynamics: ackermann steering subscribes to the message of type ackermanndrive . differential drive subscribes to the message of type twist . robot importer allows robot imports from the urdf, sdformat and xacro. supports sensor plugins, creating sensor components in o3de on import. related topics topic description robotics in o3de learn  robotics in o3de, including gems, templates and demos to help you get started. ros 2 gem concepts and structure overview of the concepts and structure of the ros 2 gem, including an overview of its components ros 2 gem api reference generated documentation for ros 2 gems api reference.