where is roscore in ros2? written by bayode aderinola  ros2 tutorials  05/11/2018 hello ros developers! in this post, well find out what happened to roscore in ros2 and how similar functions of the ros1 master were implemented in ros2. sit back and get ready to have some fun! in order to approach this theory-like topic with as much practical as possible, this post has two main sections: some tinkering with a ros2 installation. this is the real fun part: trying to find roscore in ros2. some theory. as this might be a little boring, so well keep it short and sweet! section 1: trying to find roscore in a ros2 installation since ros2 arrived in town, there has been a rumour going round that roscore is missing! but dont take anyones word for it; lets find out for ourselves. shall we? we need a functional ros2 installation for this. we will use one of the awesome docker images of ros2 provided by the open source robotics foundation (osrf), to keep it easy for everyone and make sure we can tinker with ros2 without committing too much time to installing it (yet). choose any of the following options: spin a free ros development environment at rosds . with this, you skip all installations; just a few clicks and you will have access a ros-ready computer within your browser. this is the recommended option. you have docker installed on your local development machine. please note that a ros2 installation is not necessary since were using a docker image, but if you have ros2 installed already you may choose to use it instead of the docker image. we are using option 1 for this post. its  time we skipped local installations and start developing within our browsers, but i digress. now is time for action: fire up a terminal on your machine and get ready to shoot some commands at it! our first task is spinning up the ros2 docker installation: user:~ docker run -it osrf/ros2:bouncy-ros-core unable to find image 'osrf/ros2:bouncy-ros-core' locally ... root@d213f10c91f9:/# you should get something like the above, ending with a prompt that grants access to the ros2 docker machine. now type the following commands and study the output. root@d213f10c91f9:/# roscore bash: roscore: command not found root@d213f10c91f9:/# ros2core bash: ros2core: command not found root@d213f10c91f9:/# ros2 core usage: ros2 [-h] call `ros2 <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ... ros2: error: argument call `ros2 <command> -h` for more detailed usage.: invalid choice: 'core' (choose from 'daemon', 'extension_points', 'extensions', 'launch', 'lifecycle', 'msg', 'node', 'param', 'pkg', 'run', 'service', 'srv', 'topic') root@d213f10c91f9:/# ros2 master usage: ros2 [-h] call `ros2 <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ... ros2: error: argument call `ros2 <command> -h` for more detailed usage.: invalid choice: 'master' (choose from 'daemon', 'extension_points', 'extensions', 'launch', 'lifecycle', 'msg', 'node', 'param', 'pkg', 'run', 'service', 'srv', 'topic') you may want to try other commands to find roscore in ros2, but im done here. ? conclusion: could not find roscore in ros2 . the rumour appears true after all. but what happened to roscore  it was the core of ros, so now what? lets find out in the next section. section 2: ros2  ending the ros slave trade hey, are you saying the people of ros engaged in slave trade?! of course not! its just a fun way of describing how ros1 worked. relieved? ? so lets break the news here: roscore is dead in ros2. it was killed, buried for good, and replaced by a better system. here are some highlights: in ros1, roscore is the master node. other nodes depend on it. but in ros2, no more master (and slaves). exit roscore . enter dds (data distribution service). in ros1, roscore drives a client/server (or slave/master) architecture. for ros2, dds drives a distributed architecture. peer-to-peer communication (not master-slave :d). this sounds more democratic , doesnt it? no more single point of failure (fault tolerance). roscore can hold other nodes to ransom in ros1, but no node can do that in ros2. configurable quality of service (qos). ros1 provides a best effort service, but in ros2 we can set the qos required for a specific use case. ros2 also uses dds for serialization and transport, in addition to discovery, which was the main function of roscore in ros1. you can read more  dds here . in short, in ros2, dds is the new sherrif in town; roscore has been fired! wrapping up you still have your terminal open? great, lets see an example of how one of the core functions performed by roscore is ros1 is now done in ros2: root@d213f10c91f9:/# ros2 node list -a _ros2cli_node_daemon_0 the command above finds existing nodes, including hidden ones. in ros1, roscore , which was a single node, used to rule this space. but no more in ros2! video do you prefer to see this post in audio and video instead of black and white? if yes, the video below is for you. enjoy! we want to hear you! did you like this post? whatever the case, please leave a comment in the comments section below, so we can interact and learn from each other. if you want to learn  other ros topics, then please let us know on the comments area and we will do a post or video  it. keep pushing you ros2 learning! topics: ros | ros1 | ros2 check out these related posts how to become a robotics developer may 26, 2018 updated: july 26, 2023 robotics needs developers! robotics needs software engineers and software... read more 130. the open source robotics alliance apr 8, 2024 i would like to dedicate this episode to all the ros developers out there who are thinking and... read more 129. ros2ai jan 29, 2024 i would like to dedicate this episode to all the ros developers who believe that chatgpt or... read more  older entries 1 comment anonymous on 08/07/2022 at 1:23 am re: your slave trade title  its just a fun way of describing how ros1 worked. i may be the first person to say this out loud to your team, but this isnt appropriate anywhere, much less a professional site like the construct. i trust that the same info can be conveyed without this uncomfortable joke. reply submit a comment cancel reply your email address will not be published. comment name email website save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time i comment. submit comment δ this site uses akismet to reduce spam. learn how your comment data is processed . pin it on pinterest share this twitter linkedin reddit facebook gmail