skip to content in the tutorials below, we will cover the ros 2 navigation stack (also known as nav2) in detail, step-by-step. the ros 2 navigation stack is a collection of software packages that you can use to help your mobile robot move from a starting location to a goal location safely. here will be our final output: navigation in a known environment with a map navigation in an unknown environment without a map credit to ramkumar gandhinathan and lentin josephs awesome book ros robotics projects second edition (disclosure: as an amazon associate i earn from qualifying purchases) for the world file, which comes from their books public github page . real-world applications the ros 2 navigation stack can be used in a number of real-world robotic applications: ground delivery hospitals and medical centers hotels (room service) offices restaurants warehouses and more in this project, we will work with a simulated robot in a simulated world. roboticists like to simulate robots before building them in order to test out different algorithms. you can imagine the cost of making mistakes with a physical robot can be high (e.g. crashing a mobile robot into a wall at high speed means lost money). lets get started! prerequisites ros 2 foxy fitzroy installed on ubuntu linux 20.04 if you are using another ros 2 distribution, you will need to replace foxy with the name of your distribution everywhere i mention foxy in this tutorial. i highly recommend you get the newest version of ros 2 . if you are using a newer version of ros 2, you can still follow most of the steps in this tutorial. i will point out the areas where you will need to do things differently. you have already created a ros 2 workspace . the name of our workspace is dev_ws, which stands for development workspace. for future reference, here is a complete package (named  two_wheeled_robot ) i developed that uses both urdf and sdf robot model files with the ros 2 navigation stack. you can use this as a template after you have gone through the tutorials below. directions complete the following five tutorials in order, step by step. when you are done, you will have a deep understanding of the ros 2 navigation stack and will be ready to confidently use this package in your own robotics projects. how to create a simulated mobile robot in ros 2 using urdf set up the odometry for a simulated mobile robot in ros 2 sensor fusion using the robot localization package  ros 2 set up lidar for a simulated mobile robot in ros 2 navigation and slam using the ros 2 navigation stack enjoy!