skip to content you signed in with another tab or window. reload to refresh your session. you signed out in another tab or window. reload to refresh your session. you switched accounts on another tab or window. reload to refresh your session. dismiss alert ros2 / ros2_documentation public notifications you must be signed in to change notification settings fork 1.1k star 531 files jazzy / release-ardent-apalone.rst blame blame latest commit history history 83 lines (56 loc)  3.2 kb jazzy / release-ardent-apalone.rst top file metadata and controls preview code blame 83 lines (56 loc)  3.2 kb raw .. redirect-from:: release-ardent-apalone ardent apalone ( ardent ) table of contents supported platforms features new features in this ros 2 release changes since beta 3 release known issues welcome to the first non-beta release of ros 2 software named ardent apalone ! supported platforms this version of ros 2 is supported on three platforms: ubuntu 16.04 (xenial) mac macos 10.12 (sierra) windows 10 binary packages as well as instructions for how to compile from source are provided for all 3 platforms (see install instructions <../../installation> as well as documentation ). features new features in this ros 2 release distributed discovery, publish / subscribe, request / response communication provided by a c api implemented using different vendors: eprosima's fast rtps as well as adlink's opensplice (from binary and source) rti's connext (only from source) numerous quality of service settings for handling non-ideal networks dds security support (with connext and fast rtps) c++ and python 3 client libraries sharing common code in c to unify the implementation execution model separated from the nodes, composable nodes node-specific parameters (only in c++ atm) life cycle (only in c++ atm) optionally intra-process communication using the same api (only in c++) message definitions (with bounded arrays and strings as well as default values) command line tools (e.g. ros2 run ) rviz with a few display types (the windows version will likely follow in a few weeks) file system-based resource index (querying information without recursive crawling) realtime safe code paths for pub / sub (with compatible dds implementations only) bridge between ros 1 and ros 2 hsr demo see beta 3 <beta3-overview> turtlebot demo see beta 2 <beta2-overview> for a more detailed description  see the features <../../the-ros2-project/features> page. changes since beta 3 release improvements since the beta 3 release: rviz different initialization options for message data structures in c++ (see design doc ) logging api improvements, now also used in the demos time support in c++ with different clocks wait-for-service support in the python client library draft implementation of rep 149 specifying format 3 of the package manifest files known issues fast rtps performance with larger data like the image demo using connext it is currently not allowed for two topics with the same base name but different namespaces to have a different type (see issue ). listing of node names (e.g. using ros2 node list ) does not work across some rmw implementations. on windows python launch files might hang when trying to abort using ctrl-c (see issue ). in order to continue using the shell which is blocked by the hanging command you might want to end the hanging python process using the process monitor. you cant perform that action at this time.